doc: thingy53: nrf52: Update docs after config simplification (USB CDC ACM, FOTA) (#10256)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/working_with_nrf/nrf53/thingy53.rst

| nRF5340 SoC - Network core     |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> The |NCS| by default uses :ref:`ug_multi_image` for Thingy:53.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| uses :ref:`ug_multi_image` for Thingy:53 by default.
```

> Because of this, when you choose ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` or ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` as the build target when building a sample or application, you will generate firmware for both the application core and network core:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you choose ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` or ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` as the build target when building a sample or application, you will generate firmware for both the application core and network core:
```

      west build -b *build_target* -d *destination_directory_name*

   The build target should be ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` or ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` when building samples for the application core.

>    The proper child image for ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet`` will be built automatically, check :ref:`thingy53_build_pgm_targets` for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The proper child image for ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet`` will be built automatically.
   See :ref:`thingy53_build_pgm_targets` for details.
```

Firmware update using external debug probe
------------------------------------------

> If you are using an external debug probe, such as the nRF5340 DK, or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33, you can program the Thingy:53 in a similar way as nRF5340 DK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using an external debug probe, such as the nRF5340 DK, or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33, you can program the Thingy:53 the same way as nRF5340 DK.
```

See :ref:`ug_nrf5340` for details.

.. _thingy53_app_update_mcuboot:

Firmware update using MCUboot bootloader
----------------------------------------

> Samples and applications built for Thingy:53 include the MCUboot bootloader that you can use to update firmware out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Samples and applications built for Thingy:53 include the MCUboot bootloader that you can use to update the firmware out of the box.
```

This method uses signed binary files :file:`app_update.bin` and :file:`net_core_app_update.bin` (or :file:`dfu_application.zip`).
You can program the precompiled firmware image using one of the following ways:

* Use the :doc:`mcuboot:index-ncs` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.
  In this scenario Thingy is connected directly to your PC through USB.
* Update the firmware over-the-air (OTA) using Bluetooth LE and the nRF Programmer mobile application for Android or iOS.

>   To use this method, the application that is currently programmed on Thingy:53 must support it, refer to :ref:`thingy53_app_fota_smp` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To use this method, the application that is currently programmed on Thingy:53 must support it.
  For details, refer to :ref:`thingy53_app_fota_smp` section.
```

  All precompiled images support OTA using Bluetooth.

See :ref:`thingy53_gs_updating_firmware` for the detailed procedures on how to program a Thingy:53 using `nRF Connect Programmer`_ or the `nRF Programmer`_ for Android or iOS.

.. _thingy53_app_guide:

Thingy:53 application guide
***************************

The Nordic Thingy:53 does not have a built-in J-Link debug IC.

> Because of that, Thingy:53 board by default enables MCUboot bootloader with serial recovery support and predefined static Partition Manager memory map.
> It also gives you an option to manually enable FOTA updates.
> Please refer to the following sections for details of what is configured by default and what you can configure by yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of that, the Thingy:53 board enables MCUboot bootloader with serial recovery support and predefined static Partition Manager memory map by default.
You can also enable FOTA updates manually.
See the following sections for details of what is configured by default and what you can configure by yourself.
```

.. _thingy53_app_partition_manager_config:

Partition manager configuration
===============================

> The samples and applications for Nordic Thingy:53 use :ref:`partition_manager` by default to define memory partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The samples and applications for Nordic Thingy:53 use the :ref:`partition_manager` by default to define memory partitions.
```

The memory layout must stay consistent, so that MCUboot can perform proper image updates and clean up the settings storage partition.

> To ensure that partition layout does not change between builds, the sample must use a static partition layout that is consistent between all samples in the |NCS|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that the partition layout does not change between builds, the sample must use a static partition layout that is consistent between all samples in the |NCS|.
```

MCUboot bootloader
==================

> MCUboot bootloader is enabled by default for Thingy:53 in board's :file:`Kconfig.defconfig` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCUboot bootloader is enabled by default for Thingy:53 in the :file:`Kconfig.defconfig` file of the board.
```

This ensures that the sample includes the MCUboot bootloader and that an MCUboot-compatible image is generated when the sample is built.
When using |NCS| to build the MCUboot bootloader for the Thingy:53, the configuration is applied automatically from the MCUboot repository.

The MCUboot bootloader supports serial recovery and a custom command to erase the settings storage partition.
Erasing the settings partition is needed to ensure that an application is not booted with incompatible content loaded from the settings partition.

In addition, you can set an image version, such as ``"2.3.0+0"``, using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION` Kconfig option.

.. _thingy53_app_usb:

USB
===

> The logs on Nordic Thingy:53 board are, by default, provided using USB CDC ACM to allow accessing them without additional hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logs on the Thingy:53 board are provided by default using USB CDC ACM to allow access to them without additional hardware.
```

Most of the applications and samples for Thingy:53 use only a single instance of USB CDC ACM that works as the logger's backend.
No other USB classes are used.
These samples can share a common USB product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
If a sample supports additional USB classes or more than one instance of USB CDC ACM, it must use a dedicated product name, vendor ID, and product ID.

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_BACKEND_CDC_ACM` Kconfig option (defined in :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/Kconfig.defconfig`) automatically sets default values of USB product name, vendor ID and product ID of Thingy:53.
> It also enables USB device stack and initializes USB device at boot.
> USB device remote wakeup feature is disabled by default as it requires extra action from the application side.
> A single USB CDC ACM instance is automatically included in the default board's DTS configuration (:file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/thingy53_nrf5340_common.dts`).
> The USB CDC instance is used to forward application logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_BACKEND_CDC_ACM` Kconfig option (defined in the :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/Kconfig.defconfig` file) automatically sets the default values of USB product name, vendor ID and product ID of Thingy:53.
It also enables the USB device stack and initializes the USB device at boot.
The remote wakeup feature of a USB device is disabled by default as it requires extra action from the application side.
A single USB CDC ACM instance is automatically included in the default board's DTS configuration file (:file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/thingy53_nrf5340_common.dts`).
The USB CDC instance is used to forward application logs.
```

> If you do not want to use the USB CDC ACM as a backend for logging out of the box, you can disable it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want to use the USB CDC ACM as a backend for logging out of the box, you can disable it as follows:
```

* Disable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_BACKEND_CDC_ACM` Kconfig option.

> * If USB CDC ACM is not being used for anything else, it can also be disabled in the application DTS overlay:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If USB CDC ACM is not used for anything else, you can disable it in the application's DTS overlay file:
```

> .. code-block:: none

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. code-block:: none
```

>    &cdc_acm_uart {
> 		status = "disabled";
> 	};

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     &cdc_acm_uart {
		  status = "disabled";
	  };
```

The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_BACKEND_CDC_ACM` Kconfig option (defined in the :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/Kconfig.defconfig` file) automatically sets the default values of USB product name, vendor ID and product ID of Thingy:53.
It also enables the USB device stack and initializes the USB device at boot.
The remote wakeup feature of a USB device is disabled by default as it requires extra action from the application side.
A single USB CDC ACM instance is automatically included in the default board's DTS configuration file (:file:`zephyr/boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/thingy53_nrf5340_common.dts`).
The USB CDC instance is used to forward application logs.

If you do not want to use the USB CDC ACM as a backend for logging out of the box, you can disable it as follows:

* Disable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_BACKEND_CDC_ACM` Kconfig option.
* If USB CDC ACM is not used for anything else, you can disable it in the application's DTS overlay file:

  .. code-block:: none

     &cdc_acm_uart {
		  status = "disabled";

> 	  };

Reviewer 2: Alignment of this is a bit wild, probably need something like:
```
    &cdc_acm_uart {
        status = "disabled";
    };
```

MCUboot bootloader
==================

> MCUboot bootloader is enabled by default for Thingy:53 in board Kconfig file.

Author: > I wonder if we should inform that these feature is only available in the NCS (this would not be enabled out-of-the-box if we use vanilla Zephyr).

To be honest, I am not really convinced about that. These docs relates to only NCS and for Vanilla Zephyr there are other docs. For now i did not addressed this comment in code.

USB
===

> An application compatible with the Nordic Thingy:53 is expected to enable USB CDC ACM as backend for logging.

Reviewer 3: Consider removing information about applications/samples that are compatible with Thingy:53 in the NCS. Currently all of the applications and samples are built together with MCUboot so that basic compatibility with the preprogrammed bootloader and default logging method is added out-of-the box (and OTA DFU can be enabled for any sample using a single Kconfig option).

Reviewer 3: Also multi-image build system will be always used (application is in general built together with MCUboot bootloader and netcore image.

Reviewer 3: I am also not sure if we should explicitly mention building separate image for the network core (I think such image would be misaligned with Thingy:53 support in the NCS in current version). We could simply inform that we in general build for app core and net core image is automatically added as a child image. I think

See:
`The build target should be thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp or thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns when building samples for the application core and thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet when building for the network core.` in the current documentation

Reviewer 3: You could also update the `Firmware update using external debug probe` section. Currently all of the samples/apps are compatible with preprogrammed MCUboot bootloader.

Reviewer 3: At the beginning of `Thingy:53 application guide` you could mention that in general samples and applications are compatible with preprogrammed bootloader out-of-the box and only SMP OTA DFU needs to be explicitly enabled using an additional Kconfig option (most of the configuration is done in the background and user does not need to actually do anything there).

The application acts as a GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update for both the application and network core.
The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.

> To enable FOTA feature, use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option.
> For details about implementation, please take a look at :ref:`ug_nrf52_developing_ble_fota` guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the FOTA feature, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option.
For details about the implementation, see the :ref:`ug_nrf52_developing` guide.
```

> Note that MCUboot is already enabled by default on Thingy:53 so that there is no need to do it manually in application or sample configuration.
> Also, Thingy:53 supports network core upgrade out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCUboot is already enabled by default on Thingy:53, so you do not need to do it manually in the application or sample configuration.
Thingy:53 supports network core upgrade out of the box.
```

.. _thingy53_app_external_flash:

External flash
==============

During a FOTA update, there might not be enough space available in internal flash storage to store the existing application and network core images as well as the incoming images, so the incoming images must be stored in external flash storage.

> Thingy:53 board automatically configures external flash storage and QSPI driver when FOTA updates are implied with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Thingy:53 board automatically configures external flash storage and QSPI driver when FOTA updates are implied with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option.
```

.. _thingy53_compatible_applications:

Samples and applications for Thingy:53 with FOTA out of the box
===============================================================

> The following samples and applications in the |NCS| already enable by default FOTA for Thingy:53:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following samples and applications in the |NCS| enable FOTA for Thingy:53 by default:
```

The application acts as a GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update for both the application and network core.
The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.

The application supports SMP handlers related to:

* Image management.
* Operating System (OS) management -- used to reboot the device after the firmware upload is complete.

> * Erasing settings partition -- used to ensure that a new application is not booted with incompatible content in the settings partition written by the previous application.

Reviewer 4: I am not sure why this section is removed

Author: Removed that as I moved that to section in nRF52/53 to not duplicate docs.

The application acts as a GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update for both the application and network core.
The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.

To enable FOTA feature, use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option.

> For details about implementation, please take a look at :ref:`ug_nrf52_developing_ble_fota` guide.

Reviewer 3: I would also note that Thingy:53 supports network core upgrade by default (not supported for other nRF53 boards, because only Thingy:53 enables it in its MCUboot bootloader's default configuration).

Note that MCUboot is already enabled by default on Thingy:53 and step with its configuration from guide can be ignored.

> 

Reviewer 3: ` and step with its configuration from guide can be ignored` -> `so that there is no need to do it manually in application or sample configuration`
